Add QF runtime documentation (#77)
QuantumFusion-network/qf-solochain: runtimes/qf-runtime/README.md

## Summary

The QF Runtime is a high-throughput Substrate-based runtime optimized for 100 ms block production, powered by a custom PoS-based **SPIN** [^1] leadership protocol that grants a single block-authoring right for a fixed number of slots, standard GRANDPA finality protocol and **PolkaVM** smart contracts [^2].

## Key Features

### High-Speed Block Production
- **Slot Duration** is set to 100 ms, enabling sub-second block times.
  Defined in [`SLOT_DURATION`](https://github.com/QuantumFusion-network/qf-solochain/blob/eb15c7f09221b375c46c54508144d46c45ee6e37/runtimes/qf-runtime/src/lib.rs#L89)

### SPIN Leadership Protocol

> - The slot-based **SPIN** mechanism hands off single-leader rights for a configurable number of slots/blocks aka [`DefaultSessionLength`](https://github.com/QuantumFusion-network/qf-solochain/blob/eb15c7f09221b375c46c54508144d46c45ee6e37/runtimes/qf-runtime/src/configs/mod.rs#L114), reducing election overhead and ensuring swift block production.

Reviewer: I think would be nice to add that the list from which the leader is selected is in turn selected by staking pallet

Author: I have added the sentence here explaining how to get the spin leader from the staking palette.

> - The slot-based **SPIN** mechanism hands off single-leader rights for a configurable number of slots/blocks aka [`DefaultSessionLength`](https://github.com/QuantumFusion-network/qf-solochain/blob/eb15c7f09221b375c46c54508144d46c45ee6e37/runtimes/qf-runtime/src/configs/mod.rs#L114), reducing election overhead and ensuring swift block production.

Reviewer: this is basically same things. I suggest having two unique things to us:

1. Spin leadership
Explain the slot duration here and length configuration here
3. PolkaVM contracts
Explain it here

Author: Done. I've tried to explain more, but I'm not as familiar with PolkaVM. Trying to make it as concise as possible.

## Summary

> The QF Runtime is a high-throughput Substrate-based runtime optimized for 100 ms block production, powered by a custom **SPIN** [^1] leadership protocol that grants a single block-authoring right for a fixed number of slots. It integrates standard FRAME pallets—system, timestamp, balances, staking, session, sudo, transaction payment, GRANDPA finality and custom QF modules for **PolkaVM** smart contracts [^2] and faucet funding. Together, these components provide a complete foundation for validators, smart contracts, and end users to interact seamlessly on QF's solo chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The QF Runtime is a high-throughput Substrate-based runtime optimized for 100 ms block production, powered by a custom PoS-based **SPIN** [^1] leadership protocol that grants a single block-authoring right for a fixed number of slots and standard GRANDPA finality protocol.
```

the other pallets are standard and essential pallets for any Substrate chain, no need for mentioning.

- *PoS-based* - means uses staking/session pallets, so also not necessary to mention pallets

Reviewer: could probably fit in the PolkaVM info as well

Author: Done

## Key Features

### High-Speed Block Production  
- **Slot Duration** is set to 100 ms, enabling sub-second block times.  
  Defined in [`SLOT_DURATION`](https://github.com/QuantumFusion-network/qf-solochain/blob/eb15c7f09221b375c46c54508144d46c45ee6e37/runtimes/qf-runtime/src/lib.rs#L89)

### SPIN Leadership Protocol  

> - The **SPIN** mechanism hands off single-leader rights for a [configurable number of blocks](https://github.com/QuantumFusion-network/qf-solochain/blob/eb15c7f09221b375c46c54508144d46c45ee6e37/runtimes/qf-runtime/src/configs/mod.rs#L118), reducing election overhead and ensuring swift block production.[^3]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The slot-based **SPIN** mechanism hands off single-leader rights for a [configurable number of slots/blocks](https://github.com/QuantumFusion-network/qf-solochain/blob/eb15c7f09221b375c46c54508144d46c45ee6e37/runtimes/qf-runtime/src/configs/mod.rs#L118), reducing election overhead and ensuring swift block production.[^3]
```

Author: Applied

### Finality & Validator Participation  
- Integrates **pallet_grandpa** for adaptive finality, enabling validators to vote on block finalization.  
  Documentation: [GRANDPA consensus module](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_grandpa/index.html)

## Runtime Configuration

### Constants  

> - `SLOT_DURATION`: 100 ms

Reviewer: already covered above

Author: Removed duplication

> - SPIN window length: configurable via runtime parameters in `pallet_spin`

Reviewer: this should be `DefaultSessionLength`

Author: I've add `DefaultSessionLength` above. Thanks

### Consensus Hooks  

> - `pallet_spin` hooks into block initialization to rotate leadership after the SPIN window expires.  

Reviewer: can be covered in the pallet documentation, this is not runtime specific

Author: Deleted

> - `pallet_grandpa` handles justification generation and finality rounds.

Reviewer: no need to cover this

> ## Enabled Pallets

Reviewer: don't think this is relevant tbh, almost half of them are essential for any substrate-based runtime, and our pallets can have their *purpose* defined in their own document/README

Author: Removed this. Let's make a links to the actual README files once they will be ready
